has heard Dumbledore’s powers rival those of He-
Who-Must-Not-Be-Named at the height of his
strength. But, sir” — Dobby’s voice dropped to an
urgent whisper — “there are powers Dumbledore
doesn’t … powers no decent wizard …”
And before Harry could stop him, Dobby bounded off
the bed, seized Harry’s desk lamp, and started
beating himself around the head with earsplitting
yelps.
A sudden silence fell downstairs. Two seconds later
Harry, heart thudding madly, heard Uncle Vernon
P a g e | 20
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
coming into the hall, calling, “Dudley must have left his television on again,
the little tyke!”
“Quick! In the closet!” hissed Harry, stuffing Dobby
in, shutting the door, and flinging himself onto the
bed just as the door handle turned.
“What — the — devil — are — you — doing?” said
Uncle Vernon through gritted teeth, his face horribly
close to Harry’s. “You’ve just ruined the punch line of
www.ztcprep.com

my Japanese golfer joke. … One more sound and
you’ll wish you’d never been born, boy!”
He stomped flat-footed from the room.
Shaking, Harry let Dobby out of the closet.
“See what it’s like here?” he said. “See why I’ve got to
go back to Hogwarts? It’s the only place I’ve got —
well, I think I’ve got friends.”
“Friends who don’t even write to Harry Potter?” said
Dobby slyly.
“I expect they’ve just been — wait a minute,” said
Harry, frowning. “How do you know my friends
haven’t been writing to me?”
Dobby shuffled his feet.
“Harry Potter mustn’t be angry with Dobby. Dobby
did it for the best —”
“Have you been stopping my letters?”
“Dobby has them here, sir,” said the elf. Stepping
nimbly out of Harry’s reach, he pulled a thick wad of
envelopes from the inside of the pillowcase he was
wearing. Harry could make out Hermione’s neat
www.ztcprep.com

P a g e | 21
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
writing, Ron’s untidy scrawl, and even a scribble that looked as though it
was from the Hogwarts
gamekeeper, Hagrid.
Dobby blinked anxiously up at Harry.
“Harry Potter mustn’t be angry. … Dobby hoped … if
Harry Potter thought his friends had forgotten him …
Harry Potter might not want to go back to school, sir.
…”
Harry wasn’t listening. He made a grab for the letters,
but Dobby jumped out of reach.
“Harry Potter will have them, sir, if he gives Dobby his
word that he will not return to Hogwarts. Ah, sir, this
is a danger you must not face! Say you won’t go back,
sir!”
“No,” said Harry angrily. “Give me my friends’ letters!”
“Then Harry Potter leaves Dobby no choice,” said the
elf sadly.
Before Harry could move, Dobby had darted to the
bedroom door, pulled it open, and sprinted down the
www.ztcprep.com

stairs.
Mouth dry, stomach lurching, Harry sprang after him,
trying not to make a sound. He jumped the last six
steps, landing catlike on the hall carpet, looking
around for Dobby. From the dining room he heard
Uncle Vernon saying, “… tell Petunia that very funny
story about those American plumbers, Mr. Mason.
She’s been dying to hear …”
Harry ran up the hall into the kitchen and felt his
stomach disappear.
P a g e | 22
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
Aunt Petunia’s masterpiece of a pudding, the
mountain of cream and sugared violets, was floating
up near the ceiling. On top of a cupboard in the
corner crouched Dobby.
“No,” croaked Harry. “Please … they’ll kill me. …”
“Harry Potter must say he’s not going back to school
—”
“Dobby … please …”
www.ztcprep.com

“Say it, sir —”
“I can’t —”
Dobby gave him a tragic look.
“Then Dobby must do it, sir, for Harry Potter’s own
good.”
The pudding fell to the floor with a heart-stopping
crash. Cream splattered the windows and walls as the
dish shattered. With a crack like a whip, Dobby
vanished.
There were screams from the dining room and Uncle
Vernon burst into the kitchen to find Harry, rigid with
shock, covered from head to foot in Aunt Petunia’s
pudding.
At first, it looked as though Uncle Vernon would
manage to gloss the whole thing over. (“Just our
nephew — very disturbed — meeting strangers upsets
him, so we kept him upstairs. …”) He shooed the
shocked Masons back into the dining room, promised
Harry he would flay him to within an inch of his life
when the Masons had left, and handed him a mop.
www.ztcprep.com

Aunt Petunia dug some ice cream out of the freezer
P a g e | 23
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
and Harry, still shaking, started scrubbing the
kitchen clean.
Uncle Vernon might still have been able to make his
deal — if it hadn’t been for the owl.
Aunt Petunia was just passing around a box of after-
dinner mints when a huge barn owl swooped through
the dining room window, dropped a letter on Mrs.
Mason’s head, and swooped out again. Mrs. Mason
screamed like a banshee and ran from the house
shouting about lunatics. Mr. Mason stayed just long
enough to tell the Dursleys that his wife was mortally
afraid of birds of all shapes and sizes, and to ask
whether this was their idea of a joke.
Harry stood in the kitchen, clutching the mop for
support, as Uncle Vernon advanced on him, a
demonic glint in his tiny eyes.
“Read it!” he hissed evilly, brandishing the letter the
www.ztcprep.com

owl had delivered. “Go on — read it!”
Harry took it. It did not contain birthday greetings.
Dear Mr. Potter,
We have received intelligence that a Hover Charm was
used at your place of residence this evening at twelve
minutes past nine.
As you know, underage wizards are not permitted to
perform spells outside school, and further spellwork on
your part may lead to expulsion from said school
(Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage
Sorcery, 1875, Paragraph C).
We would also ask you to remember that any magical
activity that risks notice by members of the non-
P a g e | 24
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
magical community (Muggles) is a serious offense under section 13 of the
International Confederation of
Warlocks’ Statute of Secrecy.
Enjoy your holidays!
Yours sincerely,
Mafalda Hopkirk
www.ztcprep.com

IMPROPER USE OF MAGIC OFFICE
Ministry of Magic
Harry looked up from the letter and gulped.
“You didn’t tell us you weren’t allowed to use magic
outside school,” said Uncle Vernon, a mad gleam
dancing in his eyes. “Forgot to mention it. … Slipped
your mind, I daresay. …”
He was bearing down on Harry like a great bulldog,
all his teeth bared. “Well, I’ve got news for you, boy. …
I’m locking you up. … You’re never going back to that
school … never … and if you try and magic yourself
out — they’ll expel you!”
And laughing like a maniac, he dragged Harry back
upstairs.
Uncle Vernon was as bad as his word. The following
morning, he paid a man to fit bars on Harry’s window.
He himself fitted a cat-flap in the bedroom door, so
that small amounts of food could be pushed inside
three times a day. They let Harry out to use the
bathroom morning and evening. Otherwise, he was
www.ztcprep.com

locked in his room around the clock.
P a g e | 25
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
Three days later, the Dursleys were showing no sign of relenting, and Harry
couldn’t see any way out of his
situation. He lay on his bed watching the sun sinking
behind the bars on the window and wondered
miserably what was going to happen to him.
What was the good of magicking himself out of his
room if Hogwarts would expel him for doing it? Yet life
at Privet Drive had reached an all-time low. Now that
the Dursleys knew they weren’t going to wake up as
fruit bats, he had lost his only weapon. Dobby might
have saved Harry from horrible happenings at
Hogwarts, but the way things were going, he’d
probably starve to death anyway.
The cat-flap rattled and Aunt Petunia’s hand
appeared, pushing a bowl of canned soup into the
room. Harry, whose insides were aching with hunger,
jumped off his bed and seized it. The soup was stone-
cold, but he drank half of it in one gulp. Then he
www.ztcprep.com

crossed the room to Hedwig’s cage and tipped the
soggy vegetables at the bottom of the bowl into her
empty food tray. She ruffled her feathers and gave
him a look of deep disgust.
“It’s no good turning your beak up at it — that’s all
we’ve got,” said Harry grimly.
He put the empty bowl back on the floor next to the
cat-flap and lay back down on the bed, somehow even
hungrier than he had been before the soup.
Supposing he was still alive in another four weeks,
what would happen if he didn’t turn up at Hogwarts?
Would someone be sent to see why he hadn’t come
back? Would they be able to make the Dursleys let
him go?
P a g e | 26
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
The room was growing dark. Exhausted, stomach
rumbling, mind spinning over the same unanswerable
questions, Harry fell into an uneasy sleep.
He dreamed that he was on show in a zoo, with a card
www.ztcprep.com

reading UNDERAGE WIZARD attached to his cage.
People goggled through the bars at him as he lay,
starving and weak, on a bed of straw. He saw Dobby’s
face in the crowd and shouted out, asking for help,
but Dobby called, “Harry Potter is safe there, sir!” and
vanished. Then the Dursleys appeared and Dudley
rattled the bars of the cage, laughing at him.
“Stop it,” Harry muttered as the rattling pounded in
his sore head. “Leave me alone … cut it out … I’m
trying to sleep. …”
He opened his eyes. Moonlight was shining through
the bars on the window. And someone was goggling
through the bars at him: a freckle-faced, red-haired,
long-nosed someone.
Ron Weasley was outside Harry’s window.
P a g e | 27
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
www.ztcprep.com

